---
title: Getting Started
order: 1
---

# Getting Started

Welcome to Thorium Nova! Everything you need to start playing is built in, so
lets get started.

## Starting A Flight

![Getting Started](intro.jpeg)

On the main page, click "Start Flight" to start a flight. There are three things
you need to configure for starting a flight.

### Crew Selection

![Crew Selection](crew.jpeg)

First, choose the number of players who will be playing on the bridge.

> During the current alpha, you can only choose 1.

Click the up and down arrows to choose the number. The number of crew you choose
will affect which ships you can fly on. Some ships require many crew members,
while other ships can only support a limited number of crew.

The flight director isn't included in this number; check the box if you are
playing with a flight director. If this is your first time, leave that box
unchecked.

### Ship Selection

![Ship Selection](ship.jpeg)

Next, choose the ship you want to fly with. The ship you choose will affect
which missions will be available to you, based on the capabilities of the ship.
This is also where you'll name your ship.

### Mission Selection

![Mission Selection](mission.jpeg)

Finally, choose the mission that you'll play. Each mission has different
storylines and characters. If you want to free-play, you can choose a starting
location for your ship instead.

## Station Assignment

![Station Selection](station.jpeg)

Once the flight has started, you'll be taken to the flight lobby. In the
top-left you'll be able to end, reset, and pause/resume the flight. You'll want
to make sure you resume the flight before the flight actually begins.

The game host can assign any client to any station, while each client can only
choose the station for themselves. Once a client is assigned to a station
(including the host), they'll immediately be taken to the station view.

![Pilot](pilot.jpeg)

### Leaving Station Views

To keep crew members from leaving their stations in the middle of a flight,
there are no buttons on the crew stations to return to the station picker
screen. Instead, just hit <kbd>esc</kbd> to go back.

## Connecting to the Host

On the title screen for the host, the IP address should be visible. Enter this
into a web browser (Chrome is preferred) on another computer to connect to the
server. You can then assign yourself to a station, or wait for the host to
assign you.

If another client is using the Thorium Nova app, they will automatically detect
flights running on the network and can connect to them with the click of a
button.
