---
title: Inputs
---

import DevLink from "../DevLink";

# Inputs

Inputs define the messages that can be sent from any client to the server. The
term "inputs" is used in game development to represent any kind of input made my
a keyboard, mouse click, gamepad, touchscreen, etc.

Inputs are sent to the server using HTTP POST requests, update data on the
server and perform other mutations and effects, and optionally return a JSON
response. That JSON response is helpful when an input creates a new object that
immediately should be selected in the client UI.

## Defining Inputs

Inputs are defined in the `/server/src/inputs` folder. Files in that folder
include an export of a single object where each key is the name of the input and
the value is the function executed when that input is received. The function,
which can be an `async` function, includes
[`DataContext`](/docs/development/datacontext) as the first parameter. The
second parameter is the `params` which can be sent from the client.

It is _very important_ that the `params` object be given a TypeScript type
annotation. That annotation makes it much easier to know how each input is
supposed to be used and what `params` they accept.

Inputs are able to throw errors, which will be caught and returned for the
client to handle.

Whatever is returned by the input function will be returned to the client as a
JSON response, so it just be an object or an array. TypeScript will
automatically infer the return type of the input and use that as the result type
when the client uses `netSend`.

Inputs should also use `pubsub.publish` to publish the appropriate subscription
events, which are used by card data and netRequests to update the client UI.

Here's an example of an input that updates the name of the client's record in
the database.

```ts
import {pubsub} from "../utils/pubsub";
import {DataContext} from "../utils/DataContext";

export const clientInputs = {
  clientSetName: (context: DataContext, params: {name: string}) => {
    if (!params.name) throw new Error("name is a required parameter.");
    if (typeof params.name !== "string")
      throw new Error("name must be a string.");
    if (!params.name.trim()) throw new Error("name cannot be blank.");

    context.server.clients[context.clientId].name = params.name;

    pubsub.publish("clients");
    pubsub.publish("client", {clientId: context.clientId});

    return {clientId: context.clientId, name: params.name};
  },
};
```

Once the input is defined, it should be exported from the
"<DevLink>/server/src/inputs/list.ts</DevLink>" file. Exporting a `const` from
the input file makes it easier to use the `export {inputName} from 'filepath'`
syntax which keeps the list file uncluttered.

## Sending Inputs using netSend

Thorium Nova provides the `netSend` function which can be imported from
"<DevLink>/client/src/context/netSend.tsx</DevLink>". This async function takes
an input name as the first parameter and the params object as the second
parameter. Conveniently, it's type checked and uses autocomplete based on the
input name you pass in. Being an async function, you can `await` the results to
get what the server sent back.

```tsx
const ClientButton = () => {
  const clientData = useClientData();

  return (
    <button
      className="btn btn-primary"
      onClick={async () => {
        const name = await prompt({
          header: "What is the new client name?",
        });
        if (typeof name === "string") {
          const result = await netSend("clientSetName", {name});
          alert("The client's name was set to " + result.name);
        }
      }}
    >
      {clientData?.client.name || ""}
    </button>
  );
};
```

## Sending Inputs using HTTP POST

If you look at the source code for
"<DevLink>/client/src/context/netSend.tsx</DevLink>" you'll find that it's
mostly just a wrapper around an HTTP call to the `/netSend` endpoint. The
`netSend` implementation uses a multipart form upload for uploading files, but
the server also supports a JSON request body.

It requires an `authorization` header which includes the client's name as the
`Bearer` token, as in `Authorization: Bearer my-client-name`. This is used to
identify which client is sending the request and allows the client to be
assigned to a ship.

The request body should include an `input` field with the name of the input. All
of the params for the input should be included in the request body as well.

```js
fetch("/netSend", {
  method: "POST",
  headers: {
    "content-type": "application/json",
    authorization: "Bearer my-client-name",
  },
  body: JSON.stringify({
    input: "clientSetName",
    name: "Alex's Test Client",
  }),
});
```

## File Uploads with Inputs

Inputs and `netSend` can also be used to upload files. This functionality should
likely only be used for plugin configuration, but maybe someday it could also be
used for uploading profile pictures which are added to thoriumsim.com.

When defining an input that supports uploads, the params object should define
properties that use the type `File | string`. The `File` type is used for the
`netSend` call to let it know you can pass a `File` object or `Blob` to it.

When the file is uploaded, the server will automatically save it to a temp file
with the appropriate extension (.png, .jpg, .svg, etc.) and use that temp file
path as the value of that property in the `params` object. The input can then
move the file with `fs.rename` to whatever place it needs to be.

In this example, I check to make sure the `coverImage` param is a `string`,
generate the appropriate file path for the image to be uploaded to, ensure that
the directory exists with `fs.mkdir`, and then move the file with `fs.rename`.

```ts
export const pluginInputs = {
  //...
  async pluginSetCoverImage(
    context: DataContext,
    params: {pluginId: string; coverImage: File | string}
  ) {
    const plugin = getPlugin(context, params.pluginId);
    // coverImage will be a string pointing to a temporary file
    // move it into place.
    if (plugin && typeof params.coverImage === "string") {
      const ext = path.extname(params.coverImage);
      const coverImagePath = path.join(
        thoriumPath,
        plugin.pluginPath,
        "assets/coverImage" + ext
      );

      await fs.mkdir(path.dirname(coverImagePath), {recursive: true});
      await fs.rename(params.coverImage, coverImagePath);
      plugin.coverImage = plugin.pluginPath + "/assets/coverImage" + ext;
      pubsub.publish("plugin", {pluginId: plugin.id});
    }
  },
};
```

Then, on the client side, you can use the `netSend` function to upload the file
merely by including it as a param. The `netSend` function will take care of
packaging it up properly.

```tsx
const PluginCoverImage = () => {
  // ...
  return (
    <UploadWell
      accept="image/*"
      onChange={(files: FileList) => {
        if (!plugin) return;
        netSend("pluginSetCoverImage", {
          pluginId: plugin.id,
          coverImage: files[0],
        });
      }}
    >
      {plugin?.coverImage && (
        <img
          src={plugin.coverImage + "?" + new Date().getTime()`}
          className="w-[90%] h-[90%] object-cover"
          alt="Cover"
        />
      )}
    </UploadWell>
  );
};
```

You can upload as many files as you want in a single `netSend` call, either by
passing multiple params or by using `FileList | string` as the the type of the
param.
