---
title: Net Requests
---

# Net Requests

Most data in Thorium Nova should be handled by card loaders. However, there are
some times when it can be helpful to subscribe to a specific kind of data. This
is called a "net request". It works like a card loader, but it can be loaded
anywhere in the app and return any kind of data.

Also like card loaders, net requests return initial data when they first load
and send updates whenever `pubsub.publish` is called with the same `topic` as
the net request's name.

## Defining Net Requests

Net Requests are defined in the `/server/src/netRequests` directory. Like
inputs, they should be grouped into files and folders based on how they are
used. Each file exports an object where the keys are net request names and the
values are functions that return the data.

The function, which can be an `async` function, includes
[`DataContext`](/docs/development/datacontext) as the first parameter. The
second parameter is the `params` which can be sent from the client. A third
param called `publishParams` is the params which are passed by `pubsub.publish`.

Unlike card loaders, net requests only use one function that both determines
whether the net request should get the data and what data should be returned.

The net request function should use `params` and `publishParams` to decide
whether to return data or not. For example, if the user subscribed to updates
for a specific plugin, and the publish was for a different plugin. To indicate
that a net request should not return data to that specific client, the function
should `throw null;`. This makes it possible for `null` to be a valid return
value from the net request.

Using the DataContext and params, the net request function should collect and
return the appropriate data to the client.

```ts
export const pluginsRequest = {
  plugin(
    context: DataContext,
    params: {pluginId: string},
    publishParams: {pluginId: string} | null
  ) {
    if (publishParams && params.pluginId !== publishParams.pluginId) throw null;

    return context.server.plugins.find(plugin => plugin.id === params.pluginId);
  },
};
```

## Making Net Requests

On the client, net requests are made by using the `useNetRequest` hook. The
first parameter is the name of the net request, and the second parameter is the
params to send with the net request. This hook returns the data for the request,
and automatically updates whenever there is a change.

```js
const data = useNetRequest("plugin", {pluginId: "Default Plugin"});
```

Behind the scenes, this uses React Suspense to fall back on a suspense component
whenever data is loading.

Net requests use a cache to prevent duplicate data or unnecessary requests. The
cache is keyed by the name of the parameter and the hashed params, so you can
make the same netRequest multiple times without any additional network overhead.

`useNetRequest` also supports an optional callback parameter which is called
with the NetRequest data whenever a subscription publish is called. This makes
it possible to respond imperatively to specific NetRequests as they come in.
